[singing voice] Aniplex.
[tense music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[squelching]
[grunts]
[Shirou] Hold it!
Oh?
‐ [groaning]
‐ [Gilgamesh] Saber's master.
How very unexpected.
You may have the desire to fight
but nothing else.
Without your precious Saber,
you're just
a worthless annoyance.
[Shinji] Wait just a second.
This guy right here,
he's an acquaintance
of mine from school.
[chuckles]
[Aimer's "Brave Shine"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Aimer singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Brave shine ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Stay the night ♪♪
♪♪ You save my life ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ Your brave shine ♪♪
[tense music]
What a coincidence,
running into you
in a place like this.
[Shinji grunts]
Isn't it, Emiya?
Please allow me to introduce
my brand new servant.
He's much more awesome
than Rider ever was.
Go ahead and beg for your life,
Emiya.
I might even consider
sparing it.
Not a chance.
[grunts]
All right, then!
If that's what you want,
just go ahead and die!
[Rin] That's far enough.
You, servant.
You so much as twitch
your little finger
and it's going
to cost your master his life!
[Shinji gasps]
Tohsaka!
Really?
You chose to make
a threat instead
of simply killing him,
because you realized
that his demise
would not be sufficient
to stop me.
Yes, that's right,
but losing your master
would still be
a serious blow for you.
[scoffs]
W‐‐Wait!
Where the hell are you going?
[Gilgamesh] The situation
has changed.
That girl behind you will make
a satisfactory vessel.
Huh?
[gasps]
Oh, I got it.
Hey, Tohsaka!
Why don't you ditch Emiya
and then combine forces with us?
[Shinji] You know that Caster
is gathering power, don't you?
And she's using Ryuudou Temple
as her hideout.
This could put us
at a slight disadvantage‐‐
[Rin] I don't think so, Shinji!
What possible sense
could it make
to follow someone else's flunky?
[gasps]
You little bitch!
[inhales sharply]
Kill them, Gilgamesh!
[Shinji] Kill both of them
and make it painful!
‐ [Gilgamesh] Not now.
‐ [Shinji gasps]
Sadly we're out
of time now.
If we dawdle here any longer,
this will spoil.
[groaning]
[Shinji] Dammit!
You'll regret this,
Tohsaka,
because that's not an offer I'll
be making again!
As he said,
you're lucky
to have a good friend.
[Shinji] Dammit!
Dammit, dammit!
[Rin] It's not your fault,
Shirou.
We were helpless.
Saving her
simply wasn't possible.
So why?
You must have known
it would be suicide
if you showed yourself to him.
So why?
Why would you risk your life
for a girl you don't know?
[Shirou] There was no reason.
I wanted to try and save her.
That's all there is.
[gasps]
[Rin] I always thought there
was something
off kilter with you,
but this cinches it.
Shirou, the way you live
your life is seriously warped.
[Shirou] You think I'm warped?
Oh, yeah.
Valuing the lives of others more
than you value your own
isn't right.
Listen, people only survive
by putting themselves first,
but you're always
out there trying to help others,
and sooner or later,
you'll come apart at the seams.
You're wrong about that.
I do it so that
it won't keep happening‐‐
Oh, really?
You're plenty messed up already
and it shows.
So tell me now.
What happened
to you ten years ago?
Because whatever it was,
it's what screwed you up so bad.
No, you're wrong, Tohsaka.
[Shirou] My life was saved.
That was it.
[Rin] Your life was saved?
[Shirou] Yeah.
That's all there is to it.
You didn't have to pay anything
or give up something in return?
Nothing.
Kiritsugu saved me,
end of story.
Didn't cost me a single thing.
It's just‐‐
[rumbling]
[Shirou] He looked so...
Happy.
I envied the look on his face.
When he saved me,
that emotion
was all I could feel.
I wanted to become a man
like him.
I thought that if I
could survive that disaster
and was still alive
if it happened again...
I'd have to try
and save everyone
who needed help to make up
for all those
I couldn't help back then.
That's what I want.
It's my only wish.
Because otherwise my survival
would be meaningless.
[both grunting]
And I'm telling you
that's messed up!
If he saved you,
then treat your life like
the precious thing it is!
After surviving something
so horrible,
how can you not want
to enjoy your life?
[Rin] Listen, it's wrong just
to live for the sake
of other people's happiness,
like you're some
freakin' machine!
You wanna help other people,
fine.
Go ahead!
Knock yourself out!
But you better do it
for yourself!
Unless you live your life
for yourself,
you'll never really know
what happiness is!
[gasps]
[Rin whimpers]
[Shirou] Yeah.
I'm sure you're right, Tohsaka.
Well, all right, then!
[grunts]
But it's fine.
[Shirou] I mean,
wanting to be of service,
dedicating your life
to the benefit of others...
That can't possibly be wrong.
Tohsaka, I thank you.
[grunts]
Dammit, Shirou!
How can I say anything
when you look at me like that?
[Rin] Fine.
Okay, whatever.
Then I suppose I'm going to have
to keep working on you.
Hey,
about that eighth servant
that got summoned.
[Shirou] Gilgamesh.
He's an ancient Mesopotamian
mythic hero, right?
[Rin] Yeah.
Half man,
half god.
King of Uruk,
seeker of eternal youth.
He's so powerful,
it's almost unfair.
‐ And yet‐‐
‐ [Shirou] What's bothering you?
Hmm.
He definitely had power,
but still,
I didn't really sense that much
of a power gap
between Goldie and Berserker.
Am I crazy?
[Shirou] Not at all.
On his own,
I'd put him even with Saber
or Berserker,
if not weaker.
His weapons make the difference.
Every single weapon he used
was a genuine Noble Phantasm.
Or they're weapons made
of Noble Phantasms.
That must be it.
Gilgamesh comes
from an ancient myth
and led a life indulged
with every luxury.
So it naturally follows
that he'd have the originals
of all the myths and weapons
the Noble Phantasms
were based on.
[Rin] You mean
the weapons themselves
and not his Noble Phantasm?
[Shirou] Yes, exactly right.
There must be a storehouse full
of his treasures.
That's his Noble Phantasm.
And why Berserker wasn't able
to stand up against him.
With the originals
of all Noble Phantasms,
he only has to pull out
the specific weapon
a given heroic spirit
can't beat.
Seriously,
that guy is trouble,
but at the moment,
Caster
is the more pressing issue,
so we'll just have
to deal with him later.
Yeah, you're right.
[Lancer] Only you two going up
against her?
Come on.
You know damn well
that's not going to work.
Don't be idiots.
[both] Lancer!
Been a while since
our evening out.
Ya miss me?
‐ [grunts]
‐ No, Shirou!
‐ Get back!
‐ Tohsaka, leave now!
[both grunting]
No.
While I draw his attention,
you make a break into the woods!
I said I got this.
You need to make sure
that you're safe!
Now, hang on.
It sounds like you didn't hear
a single word I said
when I was telling you you have
to start putting yourself first!
[Shirou] And I said
that it's okay!
You know I fought him before.
I have the experience
for the job.
My ranged weapons will
be more effective
at a distance.
[Shirou] Exactly my point.
You just stay clear of him
and give me some cover, okay?
I don't know any nimble little
quick draw spells like that!
If I tried to cover you,
I'd likely blow you away, too!
[Shirou] Hey,
don't bite my head off.
I don't understand why
it always has
to be such overkill with you!
‐ [scoffs]
W‐‐What did you just say to me,
you big jerk?
I just want you to stay clear
and be safe!
[grunts]
Oh, you finished already?
There's no rush.
Go ahead.
Get it out of your system.
[Rin grunts]
Oh, relax.
I have no intention of fighting.
I'm not a spectator,
so I thought I'd just stick
my oar in the water
and offer you guys
a little help.
You what?
Wait, did I hear you wrong?
Because I swear I just heard
you make an offer of help.
Is that so hard to understand?
By yourselves you two don't
stand a chance against Caster,
and since that's the case,
I'm sayin' that I'm willing
to lend you a hand.
[grunts]
I see.
You're seriously butting in,
though.
And this is your own idea?
[Lancer] An order
from my master.
To "form a united front
until Caster's little army
is beaten down."
Not a bad reason,
but still,
why go with us?
Someone else might be
a better choice.
The guy who finally
beat Berserker?
That's not good chemistry.
I really don't think
we'd get along.
Although I wouldn't complain
about his power.
That's a smart decision,
but is it a smart decision made
by your master?
Not really.
[Lancer]
It was personal preference
that led me to pick you.
As I recall,
you nearly killed me twice.
Do you really think
I'm gonna believe
a single word you say?
Of course.
You've got a good brain housed
in a fine‐looking woman.
And if she thought it
was a good idea,
you'd be willing to throw
your lot in with me, right?
[both exhale]
See now?
That's why I thought you'd be
the best.
[Lancer] If I can't choose
my job,
I'd at least like
to choose my coworkers.
I've liked you since
I first laid eyes on you.
You're beautiful, stubborn,
gutsy, and not stupid.
When I have a female master,
I hope she's like you.
[grunts]
All right.
I'm willing to do it.
But if Emiya says
he doesn't think
he can trust you,
you hit the road
and we don't see you again.
[gasps]
[Lancer] You heard the lady.
What's it gonna be, kid?
It's your judgment that's on
the line here.
[groans]
All right, fine.
[Shirou] But on one condition.
If it means that
we get your help,
I'll go along with trusting you.
In return...
What is it you want in return?
You want to know
who my master is?
Not that.
We're on the same side.
But you don't cozy up
with Tohsaka.
Huh?
Eh?
[laughs]
Oh, right, I gotcha!
I see your point there.
Yeah, kid,
that's a lot more important
than a little thing
like who might be my master.
Is there something wrong
with that?
So we're clear,
I'm not giving her up to you.
I got it.
There will not be any poaching.
[stammers]
[Lancer] Well, good for you,
little lady
The kid here's been bit
by the love bug.
Wh‐‐What the hell
are you babbling on about?
Shirou and I are only, um‐‐
we're, um‐‐
we're nothing
but fighting partners
and allies,
and that's all!
Uh‐huh.
Are ya, now?
I can see in your eyes you
don't believe a word I'm saying!
Tell him, Shirou!
Go on!
Tell him that's all that it is!
Hey, aren't you gonna
say anything to him,
you big jerk?
It's‐‐it's just the same
as saying we like each other
right out loud!
[groans]
Like each other?
Give me a break.
Everyone knows you're a couple.
Man.
You are in for one hell
of a bumpy ride, kid.
Yep.
I already know that.
Tohsaka's a handful.
[gasps]
Well, in that case,
I should probably be careful.
That said,
she is rather amusing
when she's being teased.
Do I have your permission
to chat with her?
All right.
We'll do it your way.
Until Caster's taken care of,
we're willing to accept help
from you.
It's a deal.
Damn you.
Now you pissed me off!
I swear,
if I have to put up with this,
I'm gonna kick Casters ass
all by myself!
[door creaks open and shut]
[grunts]
Shouldn't you be outside
on guard?
I'm getting quite tired
of the meaningless activity.
Caster's eyes covered
the entire church area.
No reason I should stand watch.
So you are acting
on your own behalf?
I think Caster will find you
to be a headache.
You needn't be concerned
about that.
I myself am under
her keen watchful eye.
Any suspicious activity
and I'll be dispatched
via command seal.
If you know all of that
to be true,
then why are you here?
Don't complain
when she scolds you
for breaching your pact.
You're right.
Well, I came here because
I realized
I'd never had a chance
to get to know you.
[Souichirou] I am someone
who could never cultivate
an identity.
My own desires are formless,
but somehow,
though I cannot explain why,
I want to make that woman's wish
come true for her.
I believe that this
is a very human desire,
is it not?
You want to grant Caster's wish.
You know what her goal is?
To win the Holy Grail
for herself
and to set herself free.
You accept that as a valid wish?
This is very different
than a wish.
It's rather a duty
to be carried out
in the course of daily life.
Though Caster herself
does not seem to realize it.
[Souichirou] She simply wants
to go home.
Freedom has never been
her desire.
It's time for the final battle.
Take your post, Archer.
If they have not given up
the fight by now,
this chance will be their last.
I agree with you.
My assumption has been that they
would be attacking us at dawn.
I forgot to ask you something.
What is it you consider right
and proper?
Let's see now.
That would be something
that one does not ever
regret having done.
Even if the choice
to do it was wrong.
I view good and evil
as being equal.
[Souichirou] And I think that
is the only evidence
of human‐like goodness
you will find in me.
[Rin] Hey, Lancer.
You sure what your job is,
right?
Don't make me explain it again.
[Lancer] Yeah,
my job is to battle Archer.
If worse comes to worst,
I'll deal with Saber, too.
It won't be a problem
keeping them busy.
Don't forget assassin.
She's got him, too.
Worst case,
you could wind up facing
all three of 'em.
[Lancer] Yeah, that bastard
is problematic.
Hell, I'd rather not even
face him one‐on‐one.
But he won't be showin' up
at the church for this fight.
How can you be so sure of that?
If Caster's not
at Ryuudou Temple,
wouldn't she call Assassin
to where she is?
It's true Caster may
have summoned him
to be her servant,
but that puts limitations
on him.
For one thing,
he's not able to leave
the temple grounds.
‐ Hmm.
‐ [Lancer] To hell with him.
‐ [grunts]
‐ Are you really sure
you could beat Caster
by yourselves?
You don't stand a chance
in a straight magic fight.
I suppose not.
Still, if I can just manage
to get Caster one‐on‐one,
I'm pretty sure
I can blindside her.
That right?
I see.
You've got an ace
up your sleeve.
[grunts]
[tense music]
♪♪ ♪♪
Knowing you as I do,
I was certain
you'd show up here.
[both grunting]
So then.
What little stratagem
will it be?
You aren't the sort
who would come here
without some kind of plan.
‐ [Lancer] You're right.
‐ [gasps]
[Lancer] For the time being,
looks like you're gonna
be dealing with me.
Well, I'm surprised.
You have a new pact?
So soon after you and I had
to part ways so tragically?
While I'm not one to talk,
I think your fickleness
is astonishing.
I guess it was a good idea
to have broken
from you when I did.
[Lancer scoffs]
There was always
something about you
that was really irritating,
but this,
you're rotten to the core,
aren't you?
Oh, really?
Does this betrayal leave
a bad taste in your mouth?
Considering it has nothing
to do with you‐‐
I don't care for the idea
that servants like you exist.
In fact,
it really pisses me off!
‐ Lancer.
‐ You two go on inside.
I'll join you when
I've taken care of this bastard.
[Rin] If you say so,
but Archer is‐‐
[Lancer] I know.
I'll be sure to pull my punches.
He still has to be able
to get down on his hands
and knees and beg you
to forgive him.
[grunts]
Thanks, Lancer.
I'm really glad that it was you
who chose to help us.
[both grunting]
Man, what a mess.
Some interesting turns here,
aren't there?
[Archer] What are you saying,
Lancer?
Ah, it's nothing.
For someone like me who can't
easily betray his own master,
that little lady can sure
stir up
some interesting emotions.
Didn't know you were so soft.
Do you know the expression,
"The grass is always greener
on the other side?"
Hah!
Who do you think
you're talkin' to?
Like I would ever go walkin'
on someone else's grass!
[grunts]
[distant blows landing]
[exhales]
What's the matter?
I need to tell you something,
okay?
[Rin] You see this?
There's really only one
of these pendants.
What do you mean?
Just one.
This is the pendant
that Archer brought back to me
on the same day when you
were stabbed.
[Rin] I always assumed that he
had just gone back there
and retrieved it as a courtesy
to me.
That's all I needed to tell you,
and now I'm done.
[Shirou] Tohsaka.
[grunts]
Let's go.
Yeah.
[Kalafina's "Ring Your Bell"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Kalafina singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Ring your bell ♪♪